    Title: Racket News - Issue 11
    Date: 2019-07-01T21:00:00

Welcome to the eleventh issue of [Racket](https://www.racket-lang.org) News. 

This issue finally brings you statistics on more than the `racket/racket` repository. It brings you some statistics on `racket/ChezScheme` and `racket/typed-racket` as well. You might want to see more repositories added, however I don't want to make the newsletters to long or full of useless data, so I am still trying to understand not only which other repositories to follow but also the best way to present this data given that the current tabular way doesn't feel like it's going to scale. I urge you to [contact me](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools) if you have any suggestions and comments.

Grab an espresso and enjoy!

# Table of Contents

1. [What's New?](#whatsnew)
2. [Racket Around the Web](#aroundtheweb)
3. [New Releases](#newreleases)
4. [Project in the Spotlight](#spotlight)
5. [Featured Racket Paper](#featuredpaper)
6. [Upcoming Meetups](#meetups)
7. [Help Needed](#helpneeded)
8. [Racket Project Statistics](#stats)
9. [Racket Jobs](#jobs)

<div id='whatsnew'/>
# What's New?

* John Clements just announced that the release process for v7.4 will begin in about a week with the following relevant dates: 
  * 7th:  Branch day, merge window starts
  * 15th: Merge window ends, testing starts
  * 22nd: Testing ends
* Eric Griffis [announced](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/racket-users/PH4_wn1mGRk/2_i_IP8uAwAJ) that he will be working over the next few months on several interesting projects, namely: a diagramming library, a dynamic, interactive data viz library and a digital audio workstation library. Does that sound interesting? Want to provide feedback, suggestions or support? Check the mailing list.
* The [Racket Wiki](https://github.com/racket/racket/wiki) on Github is under-appreciated. Stephen De Gabrielle has been tirelessly improving it - thanks to him it's becoming a magnificent resource for Racket related information. As an example, take a look at the [Creating Languages page](https://github.com/racket/racket/wiki/Creating-Languages).

<div id='aroundtheweb'/>
# Racket around the web

Do you blog about Racket? [Let me know!](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools)

<div id='newreleases'/>
# New Releases

If you know of library releases or maybe your own libraries and you want them to be featured, please [let me know](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools).

* [FileWatchers](https://github.com/zyrolasting/file-watchers): Sage Gerard is working on a filesystem monitoring package and [requested](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/racket-users/ASAiUphNIHI/wKg9qZ1kCgAJ) some feedback, what are you waiting for?
* [Xsmith](https://gitlab.flux.utah.edu/xsmith/xsmith): Eric Eide [announced Xsmith](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/racket-users/_xyh2XWP8_w/77wOTrLOBQAJ), a generator of highly effective fuzz testers. Eric Eide is also one of the [CSmith](https://embed.cs.utah.edu/csmith/) developers which makes me straight away excited by this project coming to being... in Racket!

<div id='spotlight'/>
# Project in the Spotlight

This week's project in the spotlight is [aws](https://github.com/greghendershott/aws), by Greg Hendershott. This library is amazingly complete supporting S3, DynamoDB, SimpleDB, SES, SNS, SQS, and more.

You can install it with:
```
raco pkg install aws
```

From the documentation:

> This library provides support for many of the Amazon Web Services. (...) The goal is to provide enough “wrapper” around a service’s HTTP interface to make it convenient to use from Racket, but not obscure the service’s semantics.

<div id='featuredpaper'/>
# Featured Racket Paper

This time we have a longish paper by Matthias Felleisen: *On the expressive power of programming languages* (link to [Elsevier](https://reader.elsevier.com/reader/sd/pii/016764239190036W?token=36F74A650F699E4E2968CFBAE1F8EF1DC8ED73BBE927A8D797FAC510D3AADFD5DDAE6024F2130E95DDF5D2CDE8C1DFEE)).

From the abstract:

> The literature on programming languages contains an abundance of informal claims on the relative expressive power of programming languages, but there is no framework for formalizing such statements nor for deriving interesting consequences. As a first step in this direction, we develop a formal notion of expressiveness and investigate its properties. To validate the theory, we analyze some widely held beliefs about the expressive power of several extensions of functional languages. Based on these results, we believe that our system correctly captures many of the informal ideas on expressiveness, and that it constitutes a foundation for further research in this direction.

Please note I am not hosting any of these files, but instead I am linking to the PDFs hosted by the researchers themselves. If you think there is a better way to do this or if I should host the files myself, [drop me a line](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools).

<div id='meetups'/>
# Upcoming Meetups

Racket School and RacketCon tickets are now for sale in a website near you. Click on the links below!

* [Racket School 2019](https://school.racket-lang.org/) - taught by Racket heavyweights it's your time to get you #lang-fu up to scratch. Will take place in Salt Lake City, US on July 8-12.
* [RacketCon 2019](https://con.racket-lang.org/) - taking place in Salt Lake City, US on July 13, 14, just after Racket School.
* [Summer RacketFest 2019](https://racketfest.com/) - taking place in Berlin, Germany on August 17, just before [ICFP'19](https://icfp19.sigplan.org/). 

<div id='helpneeded'/>
# Help Needed

Do you know a project looking for contributors or help with a task? I would love to hear about it.

<div id='stats'/>
# Racket Project Statistics

Some data about the activity in the [Racket](https://github.com/racket) et al. repositories, for the month of June, 2019.

<table>
<thead><td></td>                     <td>&nbsp;</td><td>racket</td><td>typed-racket</td><td>ChezScheme</td></thead>
<tr><td>Number of master Commits</td><td>&nbsp;</td>   <td>153</td>           <td>9</td>        <td>23</td></tr>
<tr><td>Number of Opened PRs</td>    <td>&nbsp;</td>     <td>6</td>           <td>1</td>         <td>0</td></tr>
<tr><td>Number of Merged PRs</td>    <td>&nbsp;</td>    <td>18</td>           <td>2</td>         <td>3</td></tr>
<tr><td>Number of Opened Bugs</td>   <td>&nbsp;</td>    <td>15</td>           <td>2</td>         <td>0</td></tr>
<tr><td>Number of Closed Bugs</td>   <td>&nbsp;</td>     <td>9</td>           <td>4</td>         <td>0</td></tr>
<tr><td>Bugs open - currently</td>   <td>&nbsp;</td>   <td>330</td>         <td>209</td>         <td>0</td></tr>
<tr><td>PRs open - currently</td>    <td>&nbsp;</td>    <td>97</td>          <td>19</td>         <td>0</td></tr>
</table>

Contributions by (18):

* Alexander B. McLin
* Alexis King
* Andreas Düring
* Asumu Takikawa
* Atharva Raykar
* Ben Greenman
* Fred Fu
* Gustavo Massaccesi
* Matthew Flatt
* Noah W M
* Paulo Matos
* Robby Findler
* Ryan Culpepper
* Sam Tobin-Hochstadt
* Sorawee Porncharoenwase
* Stephen De Gabrielle
* Steven Watson
* Vincent St-Amour

Of which, making the list the first time this year (6):

* Andreas Düring
* Asumu Takikawa
* Atharva Raykar
* Noah W M
* Stephen De Gabrielle
* Steven Watson

<div id='jobs'/>
# Jobs

If you want to advertise any Racket related jobs, please [send me an email](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools) or [submit an issue](https://github.com/racket-news/racket-news.github.io-src/issues).

# Contributors

Thanks to 

* Jesse Alama

for his contributions to this issue.

# Disclaimer

This issue is brought to you by [Paulo Matos](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools). Any mistakes or inaccuracies are solely mine and
they do not represent the views of the [PLT Team](http://www.racket-lang.org/team.html), who develop Racket.

I have also tried to survey the most relevant things that happened in Racket lang recently. If you have done something awesome, wrote a blog post or seen something that I missed - my apologies. [Let me know](mailto:pmatos@linki.tools) so I can rectify it in the next issue.
